.\" Manpage template for SWARM
.TH asRoot 1 "Copyleft 1995-2020" "SWARM 1.0" "SWARM Manual"

.SH NAME
\fBasRoot\fP - Executes passed commands as root user

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBasRoot\fP [\fB-r\fP \fIFILE_RETURN_VALUE\fP] [\fB-l\fP \fIFILE_LOG\fP] [\fB-o\fP \fIFILE_OUTPUT\fP] [\fB-b\fP] COMMAND OPTIONS ARGUMENTS

.SH DESCRIPTION
Executes passed COMMAND with its OPTIONS and ARGUMENTS as root user.
.PP
The Enduser can use 'useSudo=\fBtrue\fP|\fBfalse\fP' in \fI$SWARM_USER_DIR_CONF/settings.conf\fP
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-b\fP
Run the the passed command in the background.
.RE
		Script authors should make sure that this has been properly tested for their scripts.
.TP
\fB-l\fP 	\fILOGFILE\fP
Saves the errors and other messages to this file.
.RE
		This is only required if you want a specific file/name to be used - SWARM handles this on its own.
.TP
\fB-r\fP 	\fIFILE_RETURN_VALUE\fP
Saves the return value of passed COMMAND in \fIFILE_RETURN_VALUE\fP.
.RE
		This is used internaly to report back the exit status of the passed command.
.RE
		This is only required if you want a specific file/name to be used - SWARM handles this on its own.
.TP
\fB-o\fP 	\fISAVE_OUTPUT\fP
Saves \fBstdout\fP to \fISAVE_OUTPUT\fP instead of print to enduser.
.TP
\fB-m1\fP 	MSG
Prints "MSG" before asking for a password (su/sudo)
.TP
\fB-m2\fP 	MSG
Prints "MSG" while the command is (instead of the word) running.
.RE
		However, this message gets overwritten by the exit status / \fB-m3\fP
.TP
\fB-m3\fP 	MSG
Prints "MSG" as status message when exiting.
.TP
\fB--skip-status\fP
Hides the default \fBstatus\fP message.


.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
$isRoot
Is a variable which wraps swarm.util.isRoot and returns a boolean depending on wether UID is 0 or not.
.TP
USER
If user is empty, it takes LOGINNAME to display the user name for sudo.

.SH FILES
.TP
\fI$SWARM_USER_DIR_CONF/settings.conf\fP
This file is used to save how SWARM works internaly. This refers to \fI$HOME/.config/swarm/conf/settings.conf\fP, unless you have changed it otherwise in \fI$SWARMRC\fP.
.TP
\fI$SWARMRC\fP
This file stores the most imprtant path and command variables as well as some basic user information to be used for templates.

.SH EXAMPLE
asRoot argument
.PP
asRoot other example
.PP
asRoot fdisk -l /dev/sda | printe -1 --

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBsu\fP(1), \fBsudo\fP(1)

.SH BUGS
.TP
Report bugs to: https://github.com/sri-arjuna/SWARM/issues
.TP
SWARM - Homepage: https://github.com/sri-arjuna/SWARM/
.TP
General help using GNU software: <http://www.gnu.org/gethelp/>

.SH AUTHOR
This script asRoot was written by sea for SWARM version 0.8.7
