.\" Manpage template for SWARM
.TH printe 1 "Copyleft 1995-2020" "SWARM 1.0" "SWARM Manual"

.SH NAME
printe - Display up to three strings per line, ending with a NL

.SH SYNOPSYS
printe [-|--] [-1 -2] [str1 [str2 [str3]]]

.SH DESCRIPTION
This is the function that should be used the most to display any data to endusers. By default it accepts up to 3 strings per output line, this can be changed via options. To use the center, you must provide 3 strings.
.RE
* Prints one string on the left
.RE
* Prints two strings left and right
.RE
* Prints three strings left, centered and right

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
--			Recieve strings from pipe
.TP
-1			Force left aligned text only
.TP
-2			Force left & right aligned text only
.TP
-n			Prints a tailing newline character.
.TP
--left		Default behaviour if only STRING1 (left) is pased.
		This will make the cursor stay on line, unless you pass \fB-n\fP as well.
.TP
--center  	Prints STRING1 (left) in the center of the line.
		This will make the cursor stay on line, unless you pass \fB-n\fP as well.
.TP
--right		Prints STRING1 (left) on the right side.
		This will make the cursor stay on line, unless you pass \fB-n\fP as well.

.SH EXAMPLE
printe "Hello World"
.RE
printe "left" "right"
.RE
printe "" "center" ""
.PP
grep PATTERN FILE | printe -2 --



.SH SEE ALSO
\fBbash\fP(1), \fBprintl\fP(1), \fBprinte\fP(1), \fBswarm.print.border\fP(1), \fBswarm.print.text\fP(1)

.SH BUGS
Report bugs on: \fBhttp://github.com/sri-arjuna/SWARM/issues\fP

.SH AUTHOR
Simon Arjuna Erat, Switzerland

.SH LICENSE
GNU Public License V2
