.\" Manpage template for SWARM
.TH swarm.print.text 1 "Copyleft 1995-2020" "SWARM 1.0" "SWARM Manual"

.SH NAME
\fBswarm.print.text\fP - Prints the text for default output

.SH SYNOPSYS
swarm.print.text [ -h|-t|--left|--center|--right] [ -n -r ] STRING1 STRING2 STRING3

.SH DESCRIPTION
This function is the core function for all visual text output and is supposed for internal use only.
.P
By default it just prints text aligned according to its position without a border or newline, it always expects 3 string arguments. It also does not do string splitting, this has to be done in the functions calling this.
.P
The cursors will remain at its last printed position, unless you provide either the \fB-n\fP or the \fB-r\fP arguments.
.PP
It is used by all functions that print text.


.SH OPTIONS
.TP
  -t			Prints centered STRING1 in blue font on white background (theme: default-blue)
.TP
  -h			Prints white font with blue background (theme: default-blue)
.TP
  -n			Prints a tailing newline character.
.TP
  -r			Return to position 0 after printing.
.TP
  --left		Default behaviour if only STRING1 (left) is pased.
.TP
  --center	Prints STRING1 (left) in the center of the line.
.TP
  --right		Prints STRING1 (left) on the right side.


.SH EXAMPLE
.P
swarm.print.text 			<STRING1>	<STRING2>	<STRING3>
.P
swarm.print.text -n			<STRING1>		""	<STRING3>
.P
swarm.print.text -h			<STRING1> 	""	<STRING3>
.P
swarm.print.text -t					<STRING1>
.P
swarm.print.text 			<STRING1>
.RE
swarm.print.text --center 			<STRING1>
.RE
swarm.print.text -n --right 					<STRING1>

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBbash\fP(1), \fBconsole_codes\fP(4), \fBgawk\fP(1), \fBgrep\fP(1), \fBprintf\fP(1), \fBprinte\fP(1), \fBswarm.print.border\fP(1), \fBswarm.print.text\fP(1), \fBswarm.list.theme\fP(1), \fBswarm.update.theme\fP(1)

.SH BUGS
Report bugs on: \fBhttp://github.com/sri-arjuna/SWARM/issues\fP

.SH AUTHOR
Simon Arjuna Erat, Switzerland

.SH LICENSE
GNU Public License V2
