.\" Manpage template for SWARM
.TH SWARM 1 "Copyleft 1995-2020" "SWARM 1.0" "SWARM Manual"

.SH NAME
\fBswarm.sysinfo.*\fP - Summarized manpage for swarm.sysinfo.* functions

.SH SYNOPSIS
.TP
\fBswarm.sysinfo.<SECTION>.(<SUBSECTION>.)<KEY>\fP

.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
The \fBswarm.sysinfo.*\fP functions are designed to give a convenient way to access certain system or OS related information.
.P
All of the \fB*sysinfo*\fP function were created by the initial idea to ease upcoming projects of mine for \fBScript-Tools\fP which among others will include a visual (CLI of course) wrapper for \fBxrandr\fP, most other functions were then added for fun and research.
.P
However, I wanted them to be as usefull as possible, so any function that returns a \fBNAME\fP of a \fIplug-able\fP (or otherwise might have a 'toggle-able' state) device can also be used a boolean by passing \fB-q\fP tu surpress visual output.
.RE
This includes, but is not limited to: headphones, keyboard, wifi.

.P


.SH SYNTAX
.TP

swarm.sysinfo.	*
		box.	*
			name
			vendor
			type
			keyboard
			mouse
			mic
			headphones
			speakers (TODO)
			--------------------
			cpu.	*
			--------------------
			ram.	*
			--------------------
			swap.	* (TODO)
			--------------------
		hw.	*
			audio.	*
			 	device
				list
				path
				driver
			--------------------
			video.	*		Full name, example: "nVidia Gefore 970GTX"
			 	device		: according /dev/ reference: /dev/video
				list		: are there more : /dev/video* ?
				paths		: according /sys/{bus,dev,device,*} reference
				driver
			--------------------
			screen.	*
			 	list
				res
		-------------------
		.os.	*
			based
			distro
			pretty (TODO)
			version (TODO)
			desktop
			pkg_mgr
			user.	*
				local
				loged
				current
		-------------------
		fhs.	*
			bin
			sbin
			...
		-------------------
		net.	*			Current network device.. wlp3s0, eth0, etc...
			wifi.	*
				driver		Realtek?
				bssid		Current connection?
			wired.	*
				driver?
			ip.4
			ip.6
			ip.ext
			hostname




.SH EXAMPLE
.P
newTHEME=$(pick $(swarm.list.theme))
.RE
swarm.update.theme "$newTHEME"
.P
title "Select a sub directory to store your backup:"
.RE
pick -q $(swarm.list.dirs "$BACKUP_DEST")
.RE
status $? "Selected:" "$PICKED"

.SH BUGS
.PP
 Report bugs to: https://github.com/sri-arjuna/SWARM/issues
 SWARM - Homepage: https://github.com/sri-arjuna/SWARM/
 General help using GNU software: <http://www.gnu.org/gethelp/>

.SH AUTHOR
This manpage was written by Simon Arjuna Erat (sea) for SWARM version 1.0
